---
title: Moving My Digital Footprint out of the United States - Part 2
short: |
  I'm moving my digital footprint out of the United States.
---

I'm trying to rely less on US services & tech, and I'm using a few hours every Sunday to migrate.
I've mentioned why I want to do this migration in the [first part of this series]({% post_url 2026-02-01-out-of-us-1 %}).

This Sunday I didn't get quite as much done as I had hoped (our dishwasher broke and I had a lot of dishes that needed washing), but I did manage to get further with migrating my email over to [proton](https://proton.me/), and I've set it up so that you can now reach me at [hi@gustavwengel.dk](mailto:hi@gustavwengel.dk), instead of my old Gmail.

I spent a bit of time digging through 1Password to see what accounts I wanted to switch over, and oh boy do I have many accounts lying around for services I never use, or haven't used in years. I decided to switch over a handful of accounts that I'd actually be sad to lose access to, and leave the rest as ghost accounts still tied to my old Gmail.

As for my old email? I'm probably going to keep it around for a while. I've set it to redirect to my new one (took like 2 minutes), and proton helpfully offers a wizard to import contacts, calendars and emails from your Gmail to proton.

Changing habits is hard, and I still find myself reaching for my old mail, but hopefully having changed accounts, and replaced the Gmail app on my phone will make the muscle memory stick eventually.

I've sent my first outbound email from my new mail, and everything seems to work just dandy!

## Next Phase

Next week my plan is to try and move away from the wider Google ecosystem:
- Replace GDocs with Proton Docs. I don't imagine this will be very hard as I don't actually use it for anything fancy, but I am uncertain about how I'll migrate my documents.
- Replace my Google Calendar with the proton calendar
- Figure out what to do as a replacement for Google Keep

